
Motivation 
	Demographic changes -> Importance of early detection -> Reduce invasive tests
	
	Biopsies -> Replace with multimodal optical biopsy -> Examples:
		Optical biopsy is collective name for the advanced endomicroscopy methods allowing real-time, in-situ diagnosis of tissue malignancies, without the need of excision and histopathological analysis. Numerous techniques, such as endocytoscopy and fluorescence imaging, have already found their way into the clinical armamentarium over the last years; others, such as confocal laser endomicroscopy,1 Raman spectroscopy2 or optical coherence tomography (OCT),3, 4 are expected to enter routine clinical use in the imminent future. At the current state of the art, none of these imaging modalities can yet match the selectivity and specificity of traditional biopsy. This is why multi-modal imaging, which can provide complete tissue characterization through complementary modalities, will be the key to the success of optical biopsy.

	Thesis = component of miniaturized multimodal probe (list modes)
	
	Multimodal: 
		Registration
		Different NAs
	
	Aim in 2 lines: simultaneous full field white light microscopy and 3D OCT.
	
	Follows state of art blah blah


State of the Art 

	Single mode Endoscopic OCT 
		Side view, rotating
		CFB 
		Fiber Scanner
			Seibel: High freq scanner
			Needle to reduce f

	Multimodal endoscopic probes
		There are two major trends in the implementation of multi-modal endoscopic imaging systems. The first of these is based on ultra-miniaturized fiber scanners and combines two confocal techniques, such as confocal laser microscopy, OCT and laser scanning fluorescence imaging. However, the lack of full-field video-endoscopy hinders visual guidance during the endoscopic procedure. A commercial endoscope, with dimensions usually in the centimeter range, can be used in parallel, but it renders the entire procedure complex and with increased risk. (Lack of registration) In the second approach, a coherent fiber bundle (CFB) images the tissue in white-light or narrow-band illumination, while individual cores in the CFB are scanned sequentially for the confocal imaging. Earlier work has demonstrated the functionality of OCT in combination with fiber bundles;8–10 however, the final confocal image quality acquired with such systems suffers from poor SNR (signal-to-noise ratio) due to the CFB’s multi- mode behavior and distinct inter-core coupling.11, 12

	Multimodal @ IMTEK: endoscopic probes Marc, Simon: HYAZINT [static OCT, picture + schematic, explained in caption]
		MEMS-based bimodal endoscopic probe which makes use of the aforementioned imaging modalities. The probe features a two-level design by which it is possible to easily integrate the two modalities. Furthermore, the two-level approach allows the adjustment of the two modalities to their respective requirements.
	

	
Approach of this thesis (What, not How!)
	Text description of scanner and advantages (sales pitch) with achievements
		The presented work builds on the concept of a two layer, MEMS based silicon optical bench [1] that combines white light microscopy with OCT on a single integrated silicon microbench. In contrast to other approaches [2], the combination of white light microscopy with OCT is realized without the need of a coherent fiber bundle. With this design, the inherent drawbacks of such fiber bundles can be avoided, which are, for example, low light troughput, multi-modal coupling and poor resolution for a given field of view as stated in [3]. Furthermore, with the two level approach we can implement modalities with different requirements regarding the numerical aperture of the optical system as it is the case for white light microscopy and OCT.
	
	Key results (bullet list)
	
	[Photo of probe]
	
	[OCT sample]