

MOTIVATION

The demographic change in our society is stressing the importance of early detection of diseases. As checkups and screenings are becoming more common, there is a need for better and less invasive diagnostic methods which can reduce the risks and uncomfort of the patient.

An example of a common invasive diagnostic method is histology of biopsy samples, used in the diagnosis of possible cancerous and inflamatory conditions. This method involves identifying the tissue to be analyzed by endoscopy, using endoscopic forceps to extract a biopsy sample from the surface and, after extraction from the body, perform histology in the next hours. 

A faster and less invasive alternative is optical biopsy, the collective name for the advanced endomicroscopy methods allowing real-time, in-situ diagnosis of tissue malignancies, without the need of excision and histopathological analysis. Numerous techniques, such as endocytoscopy and fluorescence imaging, have already found their way into the clinical armamentarium over the last years; others, such as confocal laser endomicroscopy,1 Raman spectroscopy2 or optical coherence tomography (OCT),3, 4 are expected to enter routine clinical use in the imminent future. At the current state of the art, none of these imaging modalities can yet match the selectivity and specificity of traditional biopsy. This is why multi-modal imaging, which can provide complete tissue characterization through complementary modalities, will be the key to the success of optical biopsy.

This thesis is a subset of a project to build a compact endoscope with two enabling imaging modalities: an overview modality based on color microscopy and a OCT based optical biopsy modality allowing the 3D imaging of  tissue. The probe features a two-level design by which it is possible to easily integrate the two modalities. Furthermore, it allows the adjustment of the two modalities to their respective requirements.

The next challenge lies in the size: The external diameter of an endoscope constrains its field of application. For example, in cystoscopy (endoscopy of the urinary bladder), probes with small diameter (under 5 mm) reduce the pain and trauma to urethra.

Inside this framework, this thesis focuses on the development of the OCT imaging device, implemented as a fiber scanner compact enough to be placed in a thin, buried channel in the bottom of the multimodal probe. 

The next paragraphs introduce the state of the art of endoscopic OCT and multimodal probes. At the end of this chapter defines the approach of this thesis and summarize the key results.


STATE OF THE ART

ENDOSCOPIC OCT 

This section summarizes the technologies which paved the way towards the presented multimodal endoscopic probe.

Short after the development of the OCT technique \cite{Huang1991}, the first medical applications were reported, which soon moved from bench-top systems to endoscopic probes. These implementation were restricted to side view, single modality OCT catheter-endoscope, which sample the tissue by pulling \cite{Feldchtein1998} or rotating \cite{Tearney1994} \cite{Tearney1996}, acquiring in-vivo 2D cross sections through a lumen. This scanning method, involving the whole catheter, shows a poor dimmensional accuracy and speed, so efforts were made to achieve 2D scanning in a static probe. 
Earlier work demonstrated the functionality of OCT in combination with fiber bundles to create forward viewing endoscopes, where individual cores in the CFB were scanned sequentially OCT imaging. The advantage of CFB is that the scanning mechanism is located outside the body, in the proximal side, so the distal side probe can be made relatively compact. Neverhteless, the final image quality acquired with such systems suffers from poor SNR (signal-to-noise ratio) due to the CFB’s multi- mode behavior and distinct inter-core coupling \cite{Xie2005}. Furthermore, these systems are unsuitable for flexible endoscopes due to the rigidity of the CFB.

A new mechanism denominated resonant fiber scanner \cite{Seibel2001}, \cite{Seibel2001} allowed forward-viewing videoendoscopes with diammeters under 1 mm and with a thin, flexible catheter. They use the mechanical resonance of a piece of fiber optic to scan a laser at video speeds. OCT imaging requires a slower scanning speed than videoendoscopy, so an adaptation of the system is required to lower the resonance frequency of the scanner \cite{Huo2010}.

With the advent of MEMS technology, it became possible to integrate active mirrors in the distal side of the endoscope \cite{Liu2011}. The \emph{Gisela and Erwin Sick Chair for Microoptics} from the \emph{Institute for Microsystems Engineering} (IMTEK) made recent advancement in the integration of active scanning in microendoscopic probes \cite{Weber2012}.


There are two major trends in the implementation of multi-modal endoscopic imaging systems. The first of these is based on ultra-miniaturized fiber scanners and combines two confocal techniques, such as confocal laser microscopy, OCT and laser scanning fluorescence imaging \cite{Lorenser2013}, \cite{Yoo2011}. However, the lack of full-field video-endoscopy hinders visual guidance during the endoscopic procedure. A commercial endoscope, with dimensions usually in the centimeter range, can be used in parallel, but, as each optical system has a different axis, it is difficult to correlate both images. The second approach uses a coherent fiber bundle (CFB) to image the tissue in white-light or narrow-band illumination, while individual cores in the CFB are scanned sequentially for the confocal imaging. But, as previously described, this approach is not well suited for OCT.

A third solution was developed at IMTEK \cite{Blattmann} \cite{Kretschmer}, using a MEMS-based bimodal endoscopic probe which combines full field imaging and OCT. The optical beampath of both modalities is combined together before the objective lens, and therefore share the same field of view, allowing the registration of both imaging fields. The probe features a two-level design by which it is possible to easily integrate the two modalities. Furthermore, the two-level approach allows the adjustment of the two modalities to their respective requirements.

